in May 26th you did a famous tweet I'll
speak soon with no filter you ready to
speak 100
and
seismic news for the Premier League
football is brutal that 15 is being
rejected at Leicester 18 I got towards
got a squad number took the pictures
I'll know where the club says and I'll
look into sign you no more you have
scoliosis in your back it hasn't
affected your game Tony I'm a Tony I
don't feel like as
Ivan Tony has won his first England
caller you missed out on the final World
Cup squad do you know why the
allegations somebody's out to get me to
stop me from playing finger Ivan Tony
has been suspended for eight months with
breaching at betting rules I read the
whole fa report you acknowledge that you
lied in that meeting with the FX I
didn't lie I just couldn't really
remember you admit to 232 breaches
destroy those I didn't do vital
responsibility so the whole process
could be cleared up but the bit I to
struggle with is that using someone else
to do the best you'd said to give me I
can't have that one in my name bets for
your team to lose it's a bigger story
what impact was it having on your life
with me I never saw nothing I'm not sure
emotions that's been times I've just I'm
in a room on my own Just Looking Into
Thin Air and just
we're gonna get back to football clubs
are gonna come knocking the next Club
I'll go to if I was to move it would be
before this episode starts I have a
small favor to ask from you two months
ago 74 of people that watch this channel
didn't subscribe we're now down to 69 my
goal is 50 so if you've ever liked any
of the videos we've posted if you like
this channel can you do me a quick favor
and hit the Subscribe button it helps
this channel more than you know and the
bigger the channel gets as you've seen
the bigger the guests get thank you and
enjoy this episode
[Music]
foreign
I always believe that to understand a
person you have to understand their
earliest years I kind of see our
earliest years as the like oven that
we're formed in so if I if if you take
me back to your earliest years what do I
need to know about you to understand the
man you are today what were the
characteristics of that environment that
shaped you just out the front of where
lives like on the front is a park unlike
the older guys will just be out the
front playing and that's me at like
seven eight trying to get involved and
these guys are like 15 16 and they were
playing rough no matter if you're
eight nine ten trying to play with us
play with them they're gonna be rough so
that kind of helped me into today's game
how I am now
progressed a lot quicker and like even
when I was like 16 breaking through
Northampton I kind of had that bashing
around at a young age by the older guys
so being 16 getting Bust Around by men
let's say
I was kind of like used to it
what about hard work what was your were
you a hard-working man at that age
in terms of running and I I never liked
running I was always the lazy one at the
back of the at the back of the group
because I knew when it's time to get on
the pitch I would score goals
but like we all know
hard work beats Talent when talent
doesn't work hard so it's like kind of
like if you've got the talent and you
can work on the hard work and put them
both together then
you give yourself the best chance of
becoming
a top athlete and you and you put the
work in to improve that part of your
game and attitude
yeah I had to because there was when I
was training like when I was at
Leicester
I got told I wasn't getting a
scholarship there so then I went to I
didn't really wanna
play football as much because being
rejected at Leicester is kind of like
okay let me just chill for now but then
like my parents just like
go to go to Northampton because that was
a game that we played Northampton when I
was at Leicester and then I think the
Phantom said if anybody gets released
from them
let us know
I think Lester must have put me in touch
with Northampton and I was kind of like
I'm in an hour and about going but then
I ended up going and it was kind of like
everybody's playing for scholarship
and then it was like on the last day
everybody already knows again a
scholarship and I was the only one
that wasn't told
so everyone is in the dressing room
talking ah we've got scholarship
scholarship
and I'm there still on trial thinking
when am I getting told and it wasn't
until the next morning on the meeting
like the first meeting of all the
scholarship players joined up I got a
phone call and said
he's got a scholarship we'd like him to
come down and
I think that point was kind of like
okay I got scholarship this is my chance
now
but there was a moment there where you
were because of the rejection from
Leicester you were considering
doing something else with your life yeah
I feel like nobody likes rejection
like being rejected it's not the best
feeling
and it being like
basically you're not good enough to be
playing football how I saw it you're not
good enough to be playing football
even though it was just I'm not good
enough for Leicester I might be good
enough somewhere else somebody else
might value what my quality is a lot
more than Lester did have to see that in
the moment though yeah it's very hard
it's very hard and how old 16s was like
15 15 yeah
that's kind of like
you don't want it you don't you want
that rejection again it's like a kind of
fear of getting that again
then when I do like I said when I got
the scholarship on what's new
it wasn't happening again
because your journey through football
just generally has been a real climb
you know it's been a real real climb
like and also reflect on the fact that
most so many kids at that age 16 years
old they get they get a rejection and
they don't bounce back from it and if
they don't make it to the very top
they'll often
take that badly and pursue a different
career path but you're rejected at 16
you persevered you got into the team at
Northampton you made a good
um good impression there and then
eventually you end up at Newcastle at
what 19 18. 18 years old how was that
experience
it was crazy first time away from home
at such a young age 18 is like
and as well you thought he was a man
like from League two there was talks of
you going to a Premier League team and
like
I would never in the Northampton
changing feel like
I was a man like there was talks going
on but nothing's done until it's done
so it's kind of like actually before I
was going to Newcastle I was supposed to
go to wolves right
but I've got there I've got tools
um I've met everybody winning the change
rooms got my number on uh took the
pictures
they come to the contract side
and then I think that was a bit of
talk with my agent and the club
on certain things and then it related
back to us and I was all just confused
me my family didn't know what was going
on and then
I don't know where the club come out and
said um
we're not looking to sign you no more
due to you having scoliosis in your back
so we just think it was so confused from
getting the squad number meeting all the
players meeting all the staff and then
for them to come out and say
your scoliosis in your in your back we
wasn't we're not looking to sign you
it's kind of like
is that really the reason is there more
behind it
but then
be from having to go back to Northampton
like I've said my goodbyes at
Northampton and I'm supposed to be
concerning the Wolves then the next day
I'm back in Northampton and training
with the boys
everybody's like what's happening and
when I just sat me down and said listen
don't dwell on that I'm sure other
things will come and come into place and
I think a few weeks later new class
we're interested in
I went there scoliosis in your back what
is scoliosis and were they aware that
you had scoliosis
I thought there was aware because before
we set up to see a specialist
because they they I feel like
that wanted to know what was going on
how bad it was because I think it was
certain scoliosis it stops you from
walking at a certain age and just gets
worse and worse but
I feel like I would be busy especially
she said you'd be lucky to be walking at
28 still really yeah
and then I was just like it doesn't
really register like you think at the
time at 18 I'm thinking well I'm fine
now I'm I'm enjoying football now so
it's that really registered but being
27.
closer to 28 you kind of think well
I'm strong fit and healthy food
continuously so
what is scoliosis
where your back's not straight
It's like got a slack yeah yeah
hasn't affected your game I don't feel
like it has and you know going back to
moving to Newcastle it's like
going from League two to Premier league
is
crazy
like as soon as
since I went there I don't know fancy
you get recognized but it's not crazy
and then go into their Newcastle I'm in
the hotel
everybody's recognizing me straight away
it's like a crowd outside the hotel
waiting to see me and it's kind of like
this is what happened
so fast you're away from home as well
away from home bam a long way as well
what you what are you feeling when
Newcastle make that phone call and they
they say they're interested in you and
then you move there what does it feel
like as an 18 year old because I can
only imagine I was I was always playing
football when I was younger I was always
hoping a little bit to be a football I
knew I wasn't good enough but you know
I'm going with that whole got injured at
16.
yeah he's crazy he is crazy he
this is so exciting like
you want to tell everybody you want to
say I'm going here tomorrow yeah I'm
going here I'm going here but with me
how I am nothing's done till it's done
especially after the Wolves stuff yeah
like that was on the back of my mind so
I'm thinking right just wait until it's
all sorted then you can tell everyone
well I'm so excited I want to tell
this person that person this is
something
so yeah it was it was crazy my head was
all over the place I'm thinking
I'm actually going to the Premier League
like
I've made it I'm here
but little did I know is how far if I
made it
what happened
I feel like when you take that step you
get you get noticed more
you get more money
and just just do silly things like
like you get mixed in the wrong crowd
going out
and buying things you wouldn't normally
Buy
just a bit naive
and it's as well being away from
my family although they kept on telling
me don't do nothing silly look after
your money this and that you're gonna
think okay but they're not here to
control what I've got hold of right now
I can spend it on this I can spend on
that
like you just do things like I said
things you never normally do like we're
getting personal shoppers to come to the
house and
you don't think I'll go to the shop and
buy yourself stuff if you want to do
that so it's like these kind of things
but
yeah I think it
didn't come at me fast I wouldn't say
that I'd say just like a surprise kind
of thing like
like I said I thought I'd made it so
whatever happens I'm fine I'm in the
Premier League
what was the advice that you needed at
that point that you didn't get like if
you could go back now and have a chat
with Ivan and say listen bro you arrive
at Newcastle that day and you get a
chance just to say a couple of things to
him what'd you say I'll sit down and
have a long chat with him
it would be a long chat
no I think I'll just say like this is
where the hard work starts it's not
finished you're not you can't pull it on
cruise control you got to go to exit
gear
like yeah I'm at a Premier League club
but I haven't played yet
I've not got continuous games under my
belt to be saying okay I'm a premier
league player now
so it's like
I'd say to yeah a younger Ivan or
anybody that's in that situation go and
doing such a big jump
to say that's when the hard work starts
were you in cruise control do you think
yeah yeah if if I even was moving I'd
probably put a handbrake on really yeah
I just thought I'm Premier League now
as well you've seen all the big boys
like literally training there
it's like yeah I'm here now
and you play two games before they
loaned you out yeah come off the bench
twice against United and Chelsea and
then you went on quite a long loan spell
Barnsley Shrewsbury Wiggins gunthorpe
when you find out you're getting loaned
out how do you receive that as a player
I've always wondered this when you're a
young player in the club big you're in
the Premier League because I think
there's a lot about Manchester United as
a big fan we always low now are like
younger ads and I wonder how how that's
positioned to you as a player and how
you receive it
it's not the best feeling okay because
at the time it's kind of like I want you
know I'm here like
I'm here now you want to send me away
like yeah and you got the personal
shopper coming over exactly yeah yeah so
I need to I need to sort some things out
to me come in Shrewsbury yeah I don't
think you'll travel that far
But now y'all I feel like like it's at
that age you don't really think
what you're gonna learn for
I mean first team experience is
this is probably the best at that age as
well and like knowing that because I
feel like I just specter
Houston football is cool
like tick attacker pretty football then
go into
League one like I said on loan
you're gonna get bashed around so you
need to be ready for that
physical battle
and I feel like going online definitely
help me looking back now it helped me a
lot but at the time I was thinking I
don't need to go and learn I'm ready to
be
playing in the Premier League I feel
like from Young I've always had that
that my dad always told me no matter
where you are if you have that mentality
that you're a premier league player but
at the moment you're just on League one
that's fine but if you don't have that
mentality that
I'm a premier league player so I don't
need to try here then
it's not going to work out so it doesn't
matter where you are if you have the
mentality I should be playing in the
Prem but right now I'm playing here
that's fine
and I feel like you you go you go
a Long Way to the where I am now um
I'm feeling playing
that bit of device
that my dad gave me was
very key when you went off on loan and
they say okay you're leaving Newcastle
now does that take you out of cruise
control and into like I've got something
to prove again it should it should have
it did but it didn't really because I
always believed that no matter what
happened where I went I'm going back to
Newcastle
so no matter if I played didn't play at
all or played rubbish I'm going back to
Newcastle back to the Premier League but
not knowing the effects that could have
well it did have in the end
even though
I think all the clubs I went to about
one
hour I left goal scorer
but
it was like
I could have looking back I feel like I
could have went that
extra step further
yeah
scunthorpe united six girls and 15
appearances
showed a huge promise while you're on
your loan spells as a prolific goal
scorer and then at 22 years old you
transferred to Peterborough United
after failing to secure a regular place
at Newcastle now that
that must have
been an interesting moment because
that's kind of like another knock back
in it goes back to like Lester the
Leicester rejection and stuff that's
like another
step down you've made it to the Prem and
now you've got
to take a step down
yeah it was a must not actually not I
wouldn't say a massive not not back it
was a knockback but it was kind of like
maybe a not back I needed at the time
because like I remember sitting down
with my dad and my agent at the time and
saying listen
like me me and my dad are brutal whoever
we work with we want not we want the
honest honest truth no matter if they
say
we don't want him he's not good enough
for us I'd rather my agent tell me that
but how the relationship was that the
agent with my agent at the time
it kind of sugarcoat things right so
meanwhile that kind of had to get out of
him what did the club say like just tell
us be honest and his words were the club
don't think you're good enough already
at the time at this moment in time
so it's kind of like in my head it's
like okay fine no problem it's time for
me to go elsewhere
then regroup restart it wasn't like I
was too old it was just it was just uh
not back and set back that like I said
at the time probably needed to
kick start my journey again do you think
Newcastle were right in saying that
um possibly like don't get me wrong you
go to a great Club they had some they've
had some great players in doing very
well at the moment but I feel like
I didn't really have
a chance in the first team
to prove if I was good good enough
I feel personally anyway I know too far
at the time was
when Newcastle were fighting to stay
stay up
in the Premier League when Rafa Benitez
first come in oh yeah
so it's kind of understandable you
wanted
these players uh
try and keep them up
we wanted to experience and stuff more
than like to be given youth younger
players a chance and stuff is that what
you're saying yeah I feel like I mean
you can't really put so much
responsibility on you players or young
players to keep you up in the Premier
League it's such a big ask but
I feel like maybe The Following Season
it was kind of like
could he get a Sniff and I think he kind
of was it is his own players in them and
done his own own thing which is that's
football
so if you go to Peterborough
um you're close to your family at this
point yeah yeah oh Mommy's boy at Art so
I leave my mum around close and did it
change your attitude moving to
Peterborough unlike this whole cruise
control thing
yeah he did and especially when I went
to first went to Peterborough
I wasn't playing at the first
I'd say 10 games
the strikers out in front of me it was
scoring every game
assistant playing well
but the manager at the time Steve Evans
was just saying
the warrior trance will come and when
your chance comes it's up to you to take
it
a new trance came yeah and then took it
uh yeah 100 took it he scored 24 goals
in 32 League One games at Peterborough
which is insane yeah yeah like well like
the competitions all over the field but
especially as as a striker you need to
you drop the school goals and especially
when the other two scoring goes if you
get a one Sniff and you don't score
you'll back out again and it gives him
another opportunity
the director of football at Peterborough
said you were an incredibly hard worker
he also said you were their best
defender because you headed away nine
out of ten Corners
I feel like yeah them games I kind of
had a magnet on my head that was just
bringing the vote towards me but yeah
now I think
the hard work as well like when I'm
loved by a manager I feel like I'm a
club I feel like
it's in me to want to give back I want
to do a lot of things
for like run for a brick wall four the
manager that's wanted me in this
position did they become like proxy
father figures to you in that regard
because you're clearly a man that's
close to your father did they kind of
you see what I'm saying is that is it a
similar relationship like uh where you
want to do them proud
when I first signed a piece with Steve
Evans like the first time you spoke to
me
he was just it was like a friend like a
normal chat even though you got the
respect as a manager but he was saying
listen I want you to come in school
girls
and go go go how like the goal just go
for us benefits you and us because we're
going to go higher and you're going to
go out so it's a win-win
and I think
him putting an arm around me at that
time knowing
I've come from a Premier League club
and saying it's not really not back
this is where you kicks out your journey
again
having that I think definitely helped me
and didn't you have I read somewhere
that you had a agreement with them like
a verbal agreement that if a bigger Club
came knocking they wouldn't stand in
your way Peterborough
that probably was a verbal agreement but
if anybody knows the fee of a fever
staff and the owners and therefore we
have different ideas but I mean yeah I
guess when I did go that was the right
timing like
every every player thinks when there's a
move on the cars you want to try and
rush it through and
if things aren't right they're not right
for a reason like you can't rush good
things good things aren't rust
I think at the time that was a chance I
could have went to somewhere I try and
rush it through and it was like don't
worry oh really so there was office from
other clubs there was office from other
clubs yeah but big clubs
um biggest at a time okay Championship
clubs yeah Championship clubs and he was
saying
just just be patient you're gonna get a
better club and I'm just there like not
kick him out I'm not throwing my toys
out of the problem just be like wow it's
just a chance to move now
who used to know what can happen blah
blah and then I ended up staying in
and I went to Brentford which was
probably the best
choice in the end and around this time I
mean just before then 21 years old you
become a father for the first time yeah
I mean that's that's as well what
helps me Kickstart My Journeys as well
because I feel like
I've got people to provide for
um I have expensive taste as well so
it's either choosing my expensive taste
for my family so
if I could school goals and help both
then it's perfect so I think that's what
helped me pick things up and
I had to provide for people
does that Focus you because I'm not a
dad yet but it's around the corner for
me I'm sure
um does that Focus your priorities in a
sense like does it make because I speak
to my mates who have always had kids and
they almost described that moment when
their baby first comes they kind of see
the world differently and they're like
responsibilities differently and stuff
100 100 like you can't do the things you
normally do
you have to think baby first in all
aspects did it make your game better 100
yeah yeah 100 definitely how
it's in like I want to make him proud so
when he's older that's my dad he's done
this he's doing this this is this so
it's kind of like a pride thing as well
as wanting to do well
for my family and
have a better better lifestyle for
everybody not just me and my people
provide for when did you find out that
Brentford are interested
it was actually training at St George's
Park yeah uh with Peterborough
and there's talks of
going here there and I was kind of like
I'm gonna know him just like yeah when
it's when it's something concrete then
let me know right now I just want to
focus on training hard
because it's easy to if you let us stray
when this club's interested in you this
club's interesting you hear loads of
things
but then nothing's concrete like this is
all well and good he's looking at you
he's looking at you but this time I'm
not a kid no more when they want me and
put a bidding then we can start talking
was
hearing they're interested what does
that mean that doesn't mean nothing like
everybody can be interested but nobody
wants you yeah yeah so when
Brentford come along and I was I was
interested and actually put a bid in
that's great it's like okay
I spoke to the manager he kind of
it was straightforward and said you're
gonna come in and be the main man
we want you to be starting every game
and
school goals and
do your job then
either take us up or go to a go to a
higher Club
so you get that call from Brentford they
put a bid in you speak to the manager
Thomas Frank yes and Thomas says listen
you're going to be on number one
I think it was a no-brainer I think I
did speak to other clubs
um
actually I went into Rangers oh nice
spoke with uh the manager there which is
Steven Gerard at the time
and Manchester United did you speak to
yeah they said I wasn't good enough
yeah
I went to I went to um went to Rangers
we spoke a bit but then they said I was
like
twos of those two strikes at the time
and then I was looking to get another
one in so it would have been like four
strikes I think and I think the
formation they played majority of the
time one strike at top so you would have
been like third choice or something yeah
something like this
but and then uh we went to Celtic we
spoke to Celtic and I think it was like
the same there I'm one of three strikes
or something like this
and I think
at the time of when it was I was moving
I wanted to be like the main guy like I
think the crucial thing for me is
playing games
even though I backed myself on competing
with other Strikers but I honestly know
that when I go in what first first
through the door on the main man up
front and it's up to me to keep my
position I feel like when I went to uh
when I spoke to the manager at Brentford
he pretty much
said you're the main guy and I don't see
nobody
taking your spot
so you make sure you produce produce the
goods and it feels really
you you've worked a lot of clubs
um you've played a lot of different
clubs brunfield are special they're
really really special because they are
based on their resources they are
objectively over achieving
in a really really significant way
um
what is it about Brentford from your
experience that is make what is that
magic that they have
hard work plain and simple hard work
like we're not the best
technically gifted team we have some
magicians in the team but other than
that it's just hard work
I mean
and we fear nobody we respect them we
don't fear them
so when we go to the let's say I'm
filled away
or Chelsea aware of these kind of games
we know they're probably on paper better
than us got some big names and this and
that but
if at the end of the day the main thing
that wins the games is
hard work and a little bit of quality I
guess putting the hole in the back of
the net
and I feel like
throughout the
throughout the club everybody knows what
the manager wants
you have to you have to you have to be
willing to run for your teammate plus
your left first your right and the fans
and everybody and everybody knows the
responsibility they have
on their shoulders when they step onto
the pitch
so I think that's that's probably what's
brought us to where
and how well we're doing at the moment
and even like at the moment the team
playing without me I hear and people say
oh drinking breakfast we're going to be
like this now you're not playing this
and that I don't think in no they're not
gonna struggle because
they work hard and when you work hard
you give yourself the best chance
of winning the game
and I I know deep down Brentford would
be fine with or without me
well you've played a lot of clubs right
so you can kind of compare and contrast
is there anything else other than just
that work ethic that you've noticed is
just different at Brentford
so you've got super hard work is there
anything else their approach to things
or the strategy or the way that they I
feel like they're to govern this as well
how everybody's like everybody talk to
everyone I've been at clubs where it's
like
a certain groups it there certain groups
that they're like everybody's divided
it's like but it's not that rental
everybody
makes it to everybody how you got people
of Spanish Danish which is majority of
the club at the moment
um English and everything and everybody
just mix it together so it's not like
oh let me where my friends where should
I sit down at lunch you just get your
lunch sit down here you talk with
forever and the manager
that comes from him I feel like he makes
sure that togetherness and humbleness
like there's no
nobody at the club thinks
they're better than nobody like even
last season I scored 20 goals I was I
wasn't about nobody
I Was the Same
the person that doesn't really play too
much
they're not less of a person than me
we're all the same we'll
in it together
so I feel like that comes from the
manager and his philosophy at the club
and how he wants things to be run what
are the things that you often think with
managers and CEOs and stuff like there's
they have their like core principles
which you just get bored of hearing
because they say over and over and over
and over again what are those things
that he just repeats over and over and
over again togetherness yeah humble yeah
an attitude
and I guess he polices that pretty yeah
all the time it's all over the club it's
all in the meetings
which is probably why like I said
we do we're doing so well
as a club and as a whole whole unit
what's the what's the dressing room the
training ground dressing room culture
like
I can ask this because I've spoken to so
many players at United in particular and
especially in the Fergie areas they
always talk about the like the
self-policing culture in the dressing
room
you know like what's that like
versus other clubs yeah it's like like I
said it's yeah it's good there's other
clubs I've been at has it's been good as
well but not
how it is in Brentford I feel like
Brentford is probably one of the best
dressings I've been in in terms of
everybody knows that drill everybody
knows that position everybody's helping
others like everybody's just like the
respect if something's on the floor tidy
pick up pull in there
like
them kind of things is key if you want
to be
achieving something big and I feel like
with that
in the change room as well as in the gym
or in the in the dinner
is key and everybody's up for everybody
it was it's like one big family unit
26 years old you're named brentford's
player of the season
um
you scored 12 goals in the First Premier
League season and then you scored 20
goals in your second Premier League
season finishing third in the golden
beat rankings behind Harland and Harry
Kane
that's big yeah
it is big is Big but sometimes I don't
really
realize how big it is
because sometimes I'm at home I'm
thinking
yeah well not first in my head if you're
not first you're lost
then let my family say but look who
you're behind and look at the caliber
players that are playing in the Premier
League and you scored more than these
guys
I'm always thinking yeah but I could
have scored more and you think it's
called more than Holland
I mean not
more but I look back on chances that
should have been a goal and I feel like
there probably is like 15 15 16 chances
that I probably could have scored or
should have scored
so if I was as clinical as Ireland was
not to say I'll beat him but I could be
a lot higher than a lot higher than 20.
England
's football team
I saw I think I saw a post on your
Instagram a couple of weeks ago about
that being a huge dream for you
to play for England yeah
I think
everybody wants to pay for England yeah
I remember just screaming like
Gerard's name and the lampard's name
like when I'm on the field just kicking
and they said when that
opportunity was around and I was in
talks of it
just didn't it didn't feel real
from being
Ivan from the fountain just playing out
the front getting bashed around by the
old a lot too actually having a chance
to play for England was
something I would never have jumped off
you missed out on the final World Cup
squad
um lots of circulating rumors about why
do you know why
um
I guess
I guess it comes down to
allegations
on the Ben scandal
but I feel like
personally I felt like it was a bit of a
questionable time when they decided to
bring it all out and then when they
actually dealt with the situation come
the end of the season is kind of like
why'd you bring out then
to
and then punish me
at the end of the season
so they brought so I guess you're saying
that you suspect they brought it out at
that time to prevent you going to play
for England I assume so I'm to make it a
bigger story ah okay
personally anyway I don't know if it's
true that how not to know what's
behind the scenes but I feel like if you
have somebody go into the World Cup
that's
supposed to be betting then it's kind of
like
a bigger story
what's the real I'm not really clued up
on this or how fa thinks the fa
the England team
play Under the fa
yeah and the fa are also the sort of
body that brought the charges against
you yeah so they
so one might assume that they release
the charges at that point because if
they didn't then there might be some
ramifications on the England team or the
perceptions of England team or something
yeah I assume so right like I'm not too
aware of all this stuff but
I feel like it was a bit of a
coincidence when they desire to bring it
all out and then
having to be dealt with the punishment
at the end of the season
so far after it's kind of like
I mean you know well I feel like yes I'm
banned now but
the biggest punishment for me was
missing out on playing at the World Cup
personally
I felt more hurt and
what's the word kind of like
yeah I just I just felt I felt down
around the time
it felt like
somebody's out to get me at that time to
stop me from playing for England it was
in my head like that's just how I seen
it at the time it's like
they want to punish me for this
missing out on England
the World Cup like everybody's dream to
be playing at the World Cup
and then further down the line
ban me as well
it's kind of like
a double hit I feel
in a sense was like I said
if he was going to do if he's gonna stop
me from going to World Cup do it there
and then and deal with it deal with the
whole situation
rather than doing that missing out on
the World Cup and then let me play the
rest of the season
and then binding me off to the season
is it is not enough in my head to be
fair anyway
I felt down about it what does that mean
in real terms if I was a flyer on the
wall in your life when when that
information came in that was probably my
excuse me that was probably that the
lowest point
I was like with me I'll never show
nothing I'm not sure emotion too tough
but I think that was probably the
lowest point I felt
like you'd ask me about uh
yeah he's always
but that is what it is it's kind of like
I don't want to talk about it yeah damn
it hurt it did hurt
do you cry
no I don't feel like crying solves
anything
personally that's my personal views
everybody says
to we need to show emotion you can cry
isn't this it's okay but like
I feel like I've only acquired once when
I see
my Nancy
from losing my pap
and seeing her her as much as she was
killed me inside
and it was kind of like I didn't cry cry
but it was like tears in my eyes coming
down and it's kind of like
it was painful
do you express your how you're feeling
to anyone in your life at that point to
your partner to your family your mum
your dad when you when you find out that
you're not going to play for England and
they've you know the rumors are out
about this gambling situation do you
tell anyone how you're actually feeling
um no but people that know me know
my actions
and how that leads to how I'm feeling
like I'd be a lot more like Snappy about
things
or I'll just be like
I can just be like a zombie talking to
me and it's not like really registering
but
my head's not really in the room kind of
thing
and that people that know me know
like
something's up something's wrong what
was the reality of the situation what
was going on inside your head
and how was it when you say down and you
say that was the lowest point how what
does that mean in real terms
um
I wouldn't say depressed as such
but it's kind of like
not far off that
if anything towards that direction but
not
completely
because like that's still how I stay in
my head it's like
next opportunity next next day another
day is another day to
put things right and try and be as
positive as I can
have you ever had anxiety
probably but
how I am I don't let it
get to me as much
like I'd say
the loan spells when when I'm on loan
I'm in a room on my own there's been
times I've just literally sat there and
about the TV on just just sat there I'm
just like
chilling and just looking to thin air
and just
thinking about things
but I've never
actually I'd never like let nobody know
how I'm feeling because how I am as a
person
I feel like it it eats away at me but
I'm just always a smiley one
always like I asked people at Brent for
now on the Drake I'm making sure
everyone's fine these kind of things
I think that's my kind of way of
beating my
emotions
um if I see this person happy for me
doing that then it kind of brings me up
to make me happy kind of thing
did you did you not speak to anyone like
a professional about about this stuff
because I always think when we bottle up
our emotions it's not like they go away
it's like almost like they they eat us
up from inside and they they come out in
other ways like you were saying
snappiness or whatever or
you know
surely there's someone around you that
said you need to see someone yeah that's
yeah there was but as well me being
stubborn is kind of like nah I'm fine
it's fine like I'll be right next
tomorrow I'll be right later I'll be
right next week
I feel like I can speak to anyone in my
family but like my stomach is just don't
allow me to
I think a lot of men can relate to that
you know yeah 100 I feel like
that
personally
in May 20 26th uh you did a famous tweet
do you know that's what I'm talking
about yeah I'll speak soon with no
filter
you ready to speak
um
what did that tweet mean
that was just speak on everything really
but obviously when I've done that they
went crazy and then
I think my family just said listen you
don't need to talk
just
when you get on a pitch
that if you do the talking
but what's up damage is done you can't
talk and
it's not gonna help no situation if
anything could not damage my reputation
or my career but
just make people think
not that I care what people think is
just could put in the words that who do
you think he is that kind of thing but
it doesn't benefit no parties what
headspace were you and when you tweeted
that probably a reckless one really yeah
how are you feeling
thinking
I don't care attitude
I'd say
kind of a defense mechanism against
pretty much yeah against everybody
like even like little things like
for the whole situation not not like my
friends my friends my friends the one I
sit with better people I chill with all
the time but it's even that one that
goes
I don't know if it's just me thinking
side of things but it's like when I go
certain places like maybe some people
don't want to be associated with me in a
certain way of
obviously because the media kind of
thing and it's kind of like
not killing that image but it's kind of
like you're doing this guy he's a match
fixer his match fixing football the the
I'm not even like I remember at the time
when there was allegations
I wanted to go to a restaurant and I was
like
no you can't uh we're not taking you
the restaurant a restaurant I was like
what do you mean
that's ours because the allegations
we're not allowing you in or something
like this
I was actually so confused
I was thinking for starters it's
allegations
and secondly your restaurant how can you
not let somebody introduce a bad press
That's Why They Call It Bad press
I was just baffled and even to like
my car insurance
they wouldn't insult me due to
the whole scandal
I was just like a car insurance they
don't want me on their books because
which was baffling
I read through the the whole
um fa report many many pages I think it
was like 25 2500 pages I have it here
just to understand the case better just
so I made sure I didn't make any errors
in my observations but there's no I
think there's actually a line in there
where the commissions say they
um didn't believe you were doing any
match fixing
it was far from match fixing yeah I
wrote that down in my in my notes that
um
They concluded that you hadn't been
match fixing or anything like that in
the report
um so that that allegation from whoever
said that the restaurant or whatever
um doesn't seem to have a basis in the
report at all I'm sure there was certain
articles on saying match fixing as well
which is that's probably the media for
you making it a big
talking point
when the fa first Contact you and
and they ask they make a request for
information don't they so they want to
know more information this is dating
back to 2022 I believe
when you get that first Contact
how does that feel like your dad or your
agent must have told you that the fa
have been in touch well they wanted
information from as far back as 2015.
so it's kind of like
well I haven't got that uh
I had back then to give you information
but I wanted to cooperate how I can to
let you investigate what you want to
investigate
and when I was when I the club actually
pulled me into a room and they spoke to
me and said they're faving in touch with
you match fixing this and that
they want to speak to you and I said
okay this is Brentford yeah that's okay
no problem like
then he is that have you done any bits
whilst whilst you've been at Brentford
and have you been betting on football
and I was like no I haven't I haven't
done no
bets are fixing fixing football match
fixing football like he's like okay well
therefore I want to speak to you
don't delete nothing on your phone
because there's a system like they said
they can get like old messages or
whatever they said I said no problem I'm
not I'm not doing nothing
if they can go through what they want to
go through
and then they called you in for an
interview in May 2022. yeah and they ask
you all these questions again about what
you've been involved in
with betting Etc yeah and they asked me
certain things happen like I said
seven eight years ago
onto the top of my head
so much information in front of me at
one time
it's kind of like as you can't remember
I can't remember and there's
I think I was in there for like what
five hours
five hours yeah
but at that time you you maintained to
them that you're not betting on football
yeah and I was I wasn't aware what what
that was what I was trying to get
you acknowledged later on that you you
basically lied in that meeting with the
fa I didn't lie I just couldn't really
remember what what they was asking for
at the time I couldn't remember until
they brought certain things in front of
me and it was kind of like okay he's
talking about my memory and we
like I said I cooperate with everything
they wanted to do and we kind of
spoke on it and then I told him the
truth about everything one of the things
people might find surprising is they
they asked for your they asked for your
mobile phones and stuff and then they
like image your mobile phones to check
like all the messages you've sent to
people
going back a long time on the on these
phones to find out everything you've
been said and also as you said they they
ask you not to delete any messages which
you didn't from from what the commission
said
um
but how does that feel when the fa asks
for your mobile phone and they you know
they're going to scan it
for everything it doesn't feel yeah it's
just kind of like
it's your privacy and they're like
invading it it's kind of like
I've got certain pitch on there I won't
want them to see like these kind of
things so it's
pretty much like you have to go with
what they're saying otherwise I feel
like I think you get a longer band for
not cooperating or something like this
so what what can I do yes you want to
take my phone take my phone and all your
bank statements as well they also your
bank statements which you handed over as
well yeah
um
you hand it over I believe multiple
phones no just one phone oh just the one
yeah I thought there was a there was
some they said that was another phone
but that wasn't that much fun I had that
as well and then eventually you admit to
232 breaches of their rules and their
favorite E8
um
which is betting over five seasons from
25th of February 2017 debating up until
January 21.
yes and
like I said there was people saying I
was match fixing but none of it was
match fixing it was just like I said
before I was betting myself to school
first
from
I think this was a while back
and it's kind of like that's not
like I'm not trying to not try and I'm
still trying to do the right thing it's
not like I'm
smashing someone and getting a yellow
card here then everywhere
yeah and the report actually does say
that it says that you weren't you
weren't this the commission said that
you weren't match fixing which is a
completely different completely
different thing yeah they're making bets
on like games that you're either you're
playing in on yourself to school all
betting on the team when you're not in
the team which is what from what I read
which is what what happened gambling and
generally when did that start in your
life when did you start first gambling
um I think it's just kind of like as
you're young it's like a little flutter
they call it like you're in like the
fair arcade kind of thing just
trying to win a little change or
something or these kind of things so I'd
say like
around 15
or 15 and such
and it and it got progressively worse
yeah I'd say the more money you get the
more
the higher the seats go
that's kind of like
oh if I lose this it's fine this is
coming next month
was did you not realize you know
throughout those sort of five years when
you were betting a lot 232 breaches that
your relationship with betting was
unhealthy I think on the on the 200 and
was it for 82 breaches like that was
there was some bets in there that
ladder record making that that but I was
willing to take responsibility just to
get the process
all over and done with because having
that hovering over me and trying to
concentrate my career is not is not the
best feeling far from the best feeling
and then Adam I've done well to finish
on
20 goals if that hanging over me but
in terms of
thinking do you have a problem it's kind
of like you don't think of
if I lose this this is gonna happen
so it's like oh once I won this this
this and this can happen
you never think of the negatives you'd
always think of the positives
and being on the money I was on
which affords a lot of time and it's
kind of like
it's fine I'll get there in the back end
of the month
oh that's coming back this and this
month oh he owes me this it's fine
what impact was it having on your life
betting
um
I feel like
it was just the impact it would have it
was just waiting for payday right that
might happen through the month she
weren't prepared it
but you could spend your wage and then
wait for payday spend your wage wait for
payday yeah well I'd pay and sort
everything I need to pay for first and
then it's like I got this play with do
that it's fine
but it'll come soon
so it wasn't it wasn't like
spend this money I should be giving here
or paying on this you took care of your
I took care of what needed to be careful
and
my head is kind of like my money is my
money for I couldn't spend it how I
wanna and
yeah pretty much pretty much like that
I've made my money
it's up to me I want to spend it
one of the one of the things that was
quite surprising is bets against bets
for your team to lose when you weren't
playing in the team
the you you must you knew bedding was
wrong right like you knew that as a
footballer you weren't allowed to bet
my knowledge of
not my knowledge of betting on football
though I don't think I recall once
somebody coming and just giving
a talk on their experience but not you
can't bet on football
so it wasn't like I shouldn't be better
than this shouldn't be bad on that and I
feel like I think the best that on my
team to lose when I'm not playing I
think a few of the majority of those
were
within the bets that I know
about a person I think I didn't didn't
do but I still took responsibility
of them for them so the whole process
could
get cleared up and you um you don't know
about some of these bets you're saying
because you did them through somebody
else yeah because and you did them
through somebody else because you you
knew you weren't allowed to right it
wasn't through that I didn't knew I
wasn't allowed to is that I didn't see
what I didn't want my parents seeing
while I'm doing my money
this was a point of contention in the
documents the fa said you know he's
betting through somebody because he
didn't want he didn't want the fa to
find out you're saying you you bet
through somebody else because your
parents the male was going to the house
and you didn't want them opening up the
post and seeing it yeah that's right
essentially
that was a point I mean the commission
go go their own way on that
um and then okay so moving on from that
there's there's all these aggravating
factors in the in the document
um was he aware of the rules I think you
eventually admitted that you were aware
of the rules in terms of not being able
to bet on football
um
going back to the days I think at
Northampton I think was it Northampton
um one of your previous chat I think
your previous chairman at the football
club was thrown out because of a betting
Scandal and then you have a relative in
your life that was also
issued with a breach of the fa rules for
betting in 2007 as well so they can
commission concluded that you were aware
of the rules and that you couldn't bet
but you sort of counteract that by
saying you didn't have I think it was it
was kind of a gray area right but I
think there was a time where
like I said the the clubs I've been at
they were like beginning of every season
though I feel like they'd have somebody
come in but not actually tell you what
you can and what you can't bet on what
would that person say just like this is
its experiences on betting like he'd
come in and say this is uh and then I've
lost this much I've gone through this so
when if you think about Ben don't do it
so it wasn't like you can't be banned on
football or you can't be betting on yeah
you can't be better on football it was
just his experiences of going through a
gambling stage
because uh so so you didn't know you
could you couldn't bet as a player no I
think it was a gray area something like
you'd hear you can you hit it you can't
and then there's certain things you say
you can't bet on like
I feel like it was a gray area
and you admitted in the second
aggravating factors about knowing
knowing whether you basically missing to
whether you were betting or not and in
the interview with the commission during
the process you said that you had lied
early on by saying I don't vote on
football in an earlier interview
um but you know that was one of the
first interviews you had and you had
responded I didn't burn football and
yeah that that wasn't accurate yeah that
was when obviously they threw everything
got me I thought if I was just deny it
then it's it's all fine I wouldn't find
nothing but then
went through and then
yeah I'd meet uh
I'm admitted to what Adam
in the fa the fourth average rate in
fact was whether the player sought to
conceal his identity when he set up his
own betting account 2017 the commission
um didn't accept the fa submission there
they didn't they didn't believe that
you'd concealed it in that regard
um whether the player deleted messages
issue number five commission concluded
that there wasn't evidence that you
deleted any messages
they they I was accused of dilemma's
yeah that's right yeah by the fa but the
commission said that they didn't have
substantial evidence for that yeah
um kind of just I was told not to and
you didn't delete nothing from the club
the commission couldn't find any
evidence that you had deleted anything
so
um and then the phone issue we've talked
about already the last issue was around
whether you had a gambling addiction and
they brought out a psychologist called
Dr Philip hopley who looked you did
interviews with you
um he's a highly qualified and
experienced psychiatric expert according
to the commission and he interviewed you
on two occasions and he formed a clear
opinion that you had a gambling
addiction
and accordingly the commission accepted
the findings of the doctor on this issue
and that's part of the reason that you
were given a more lenient sentence
um because Dr hopley said that you had
an impulsive uh compulsive disorder
yeah was that the first time you'd heard
of gambling addiction
yeah through this process this tribunal
yeah because I feel like
it wouldn't be in me to bring myself
forward to
speak to one of these people
to see if I did have one
so it's kind of like like I said my
stubbornness comes comes into play on
this one it's kind of like
no fine I can stop when I want to stop
did he expect someone explain to you a
gambling addiction is since then
a little bit yeah we did speak with us
how to play on on around around one
addiction is but
it's kind of like
you don't allow
yourself to believe it
like I feel like it's gonna stop doing
something I feel like people think in
the head I can stop with one but not not
knowing
deep down you probably can't could you
have stopped
probably
yeah it's it's I feel like it's
50 50. you could have stopped but I feel
like a thrill on it is kind of like
what keeps you going
because the fa though sort of
counterpointed that was that there was
periods where you you didn't you didn't
gamble so they would they were saying
that to the commission that you know
it's not gambling addiction because
there's parts of his journey where he's
not gambling or he's betting on other
things for example
um
do you still gamble now
no anything no any betting at all across
any not
has that required therapy or any sort of
professional support I think it's kind
of
being in the public eye if I was
to be like going into these places and
these kind of things
I think it's more the embarrassment
those eyes still continue
this kind of thing
so I I wouldn't allow myself and
like you look back you I feel like he's
sit take a back seat and look up
all the money you've lost and what you
could have went on and what and
especially now having people to provide
for it's kind of like
you can't be spending that money on this
it can go to to here or
like just manage your money bro our luck
of things and how I look at me off I see
that as
being naive
we don't really get much information do
we uh growing up about gambling
well really it had it like how to spend
our money or tax especially I think
about you guys as like young you know 20
year olds that I just you know playing
football and then you become
millionaires because you're good at it
it's kind of different for like my
Pursuit because like building a business
you have to see a focus your Finance
people around you you have controls
budgets forecasts P L's all this stuff
so you know you're surrounded by like
money minds and brains around you when
you're building a business but being a
young 20 year old millionaire who I'm
presuming nobody gave you Financial
education
no it's kind of like you said yeah being
having that much money at tender age
it's kind of like
what do I do with it
and
I'm not a family that comes from money
so it's not like my parents could
help me a lot with that but they they
would have their say on certain things
but it's like
you kind of have to
try and just manage it yourself
and just
assume doing this is the right thing
you don't know what you don't know
pretty much
the bit of this case that I that I was I
was I found difficult is that using
someone else to do the best because for
me that's that points to like in that he
did know I think that's what people
would think they'd look at that again of
course 100 conceal it because I'm
thinking your mom your mom and dad ain't
opened your post at 27 years old like my
mum ain't gonna open my post no this was
it was when I was away
yeah so I know my post did go to my
parents and I feel like of course your
parents want to be
knowing what's going on if you're
getting this letter through that's
you're not paying this or
like like I said seeing what you're
spending your money on and I feel like
because we're a tight family my mom
would worry about that
and there was actually times where she's
opened it and she's kind of said certain
things about it
and the fa had highlighted text message
you'd sent me you said to give me I
can't have that one in my name
what was the app I gambled on on your
phone this time from text messages that
they'd found that's the bit that I
struggled with was I was like I wasn't
sure that but this chapter of your life
has clearly been
a big learning moment 100 I feel like
looking back on
what I've done what I changed some bits
probably but
is what it is and the man I'm now
continuing forward is kind of but it's
different to what I was before do you
take like when we think about
responsibility for our actions what's
what what responsibility do you take for
all of this where you say listen
this is this is what I take
responsibility for here
um and this is also like
going back to a question I asked earlier
about like what do you wish someone had
had said you
when you first did that I don't know
those those bets five five six seven
years ago
um what's the responsibility you take
and what's the what's the lesson you've
taken from this process I think the
responsibility I'd take was yeah I was
betting on myself to the school first
which
now you I know you shouldn't be doing
which I take responsibility and I'll
take
full responsibility for the punishment
I'm getting now so uh it was it would be
kind of a lack
and why I tell my younger self around
them kind of times it's like
manage your money but don't get mixed in
there wrong crowd I say and just just
don't follow fashion
of your own of your own mindset uh mind
frame on
what you should and should be doing or
if you don't know look more into it and
if that's what you really want to do
look more into it and what you can and
can and can't do
it's interesting because when they were
deliberating your your punishment one of
the things that came to mind is
perception and what it would the
perception it would send to the rest of
the the game
um
do you think they they made an example
of you
I feel so yeah
do you think that's right
I can't I don't think it's right now but
because you're a high profile Premier
League player obviously if if you get
away with doing something like this this
could other players lower levels could
also emulate it so they've got an
opportunity here to send a message 100
100 and I feel like a lot of people
think that in terms of
if no disrespects are lower leagues but
if I was well actually we actually did
look at some cases that was somewhat
similar someone worse
and their punishment wasn't
like how mine is
I think the fact that's the opportunity
the fact that I'm playing in the Premier
League doing well
snifferon England
kind of like right it's our chance to
punish him then people know this is kind
of
the punishment you're looking at if you
want to do
why don't it's funny because I was
actually surprised to read that in the
the
um the analysis section of this document
where it says the perception of the
impact of football betting on the
Integrity of the game is key a key
consideration when deciding on your
sanction
which does kind of suggest that they're
quite intentional in making sure that
they make an example of you
um thereabouts in their words
um and obviously you have a huge
position of influence so that's that's
key
um
and then they submit that the FAS
suggested that you get 12 months ban as
a suspension I believe and that was
their final sanction the commission
didn't accept that
um ordinarily the commission would have
imposed 50 15 months suspension had you
not pled guilty to the charges which
lowered your sanction and then also
you've got another
um reduction in the sanction because of
the findings from the Doctor Who found
that you had a gambling addiction which
brought your sentence down to eight
months
um and you'll find fifty thousand pounds
it's interesting because you know I'm a
huge football fan so I want to see you
play and I you're on such a role
Brentford are on such a role so like as
a football fan although you smashed
United last year like it was so it's so
good to see like a young black English
striker tearing up the game at his Peak
it's getting to see you out of the game
it is
and I feel like like how I am a lot of
people know how I stay this is this is
nothing I I know for a fact I'll come
back stronger than this I'm better than
I was before like this is gives me the
hunger against uh recharge and come back
on on another another level like like I
said before earlier
no time to dwell on things no time to
dwell on things and it's like
just when that first game comes and I
can play then
it's not a ball game
it's on
when you found out you you suspended for
eight months
how did that feel what's that like
um because you know you're in the peak
of your powers right now right yeah I
know it's it's painful but
I feel like the hard part isn't kind of
not
because right now I'll be playing
football matches and I kind of be around
the players and not the football ground
and things like this and it's kind of
like
okay that's what you want to do punish
me from there but
I thought I'd keep me away from the
ground if I wasn't as strong as I was
in my head that would break some people
and then we talk about mental health and
all these kind of things and what's that
kind of doing to
a player that's not allowed in the
environment even though you can't play
games but keeping away from the training
ground
knowing football's their life and that's
all they've done from such a young age
how is that going to help them
at all
yeah this is I completely agree with you
I think I think the sanction itself is
important because it does send a message
and I agree with that but the bit that I
just struggle with is the can't train at
the club and we know as you you point
out there like
mental health keeping active is such an
important thing especially if you've
been playing football since you're a kid
and it's your purpose it's what you know
um so psychologically and physically
there's a a real strong case to keep
your keep you active and I've seen a lot
of people have their say on this a lot
of people think you know you could have
trained at the ground and then use that
time to educate young players on on
gambling that would have been useful but
to keep you out of the club not allow
you to train and to kind of push you out
on your own it seems doesn't feel like
it's smart it doesn't it doesn't add up
with what
the things they push forward like
like we say the old football Community
is on big on Mental Health then the fa
go and do this and like
push me away from like my the whole
football environment like by all means
it's not
a place where I want people to feel
sorry for me like that's the last thing
that's the last thing I want and me as a
person people that know me with no
that's not what one thing I'm trying to
achieve but so that says what if
somebody that's not as strong as me in
their head
happens to be going through this kind of
situation and that punishment is not
allowed at the training ground
like that would break them like right
now I've been not been around a training
ground it does hurt me but I just know
when I'm at the training ground train
harder be ready for the the game when I
can play
but it's
yeah it's like I said it's not a nice
feeling and the whole purpose of
not being allowed at the training ground
is
it's baffling to me but you have hard
days
still
yeah yeah yeah I feel like everybody has
others I mean like with through this
process has there been days where like
you're ups and your downs and difficult
days where you start you have low
moments because you are away from
football the Press is on top of you
yeah I feel like I've a hard Hours hard
two hours kind of things like in the
mornings
I'd wake up like ah come yesterday
but
getting a song active when you're there
working
it's kind of like oh yeah as much as you
don't want to do it
you've seen the long run that that time
I didn't want to get up I didn't want to
do on uh
put the work in it's paying off now
whereas if I'm
saying all tomorrow
and then tomorrow comes I'll do it next
day
so you're still training yeah yeah still
keeping fit still doing my own thing
welcome to personal trainer yeah
personal trainer which is which is good
and it's not like a lenient one this one
one that pushes me so
I feel like I'm not got it good but I've
got the best people around me to
keep me fit and keep me going and like I
said my family is key
my family is the one that's what the
other people that's helping me going as
well and especially my children
you're you're a mummy's boy yeah
sometimes in these moments it's it's
difficult for us but it's harder to
watch the impact has on our family right
yeah 100 I feel like
like even when the whole thing was it
was like
those allegations and the people like
going into my mum's work and just saying
certain things and
I'd be at a petrol station they scream
certain things and I'll be with my
family and my children
and people just be like shouting dumb
things out
just like oh you pointed like certain
things that are you put the tenor on
today's game or these kind of things or
just silly image all things and how I am
I'm kind of hot-headed
but especially when families are
involved and my children are around it's
kind of like
it's hard for me not to want to say
something called do something cool these
kind of things
it's like going through that period
right it's hard and people that you
wouldn't normally speak to or my parents
or
family wouldn't normally speak to that'd
pop up and just be like oh something
Reviving
so it's when the bad things come along
how you want to talk and find out what's
going on
whereas when I'm screwing goals or
getting big for England you don't really
want to say too much
but
that's life and that's how people are
and we don't miss them
we see them we see the evil eyes so it's
has this process been um has it
illuminated
um things for you in certain areas of
your life certain people and some people
that their View and stuff you know
because I haven't even thinking about
the gaffer Thomas Frank he's come to
your defense multiple times
talking about how he disagrees with the
way that it's been handled the sanctions
and he thinks that you should be able to
train with the team and
um be out there educating young kids etc
etc he disagrees with the the decision
that the commission made not just soon
so uh get out of Southgate as well he
did talk support yeah yeah I know I
spoke to him as well
but how does that feel then what does
that mean to you it feels good knowing
I've got
um then behind me obviously the England
manager and my club manager backing me
it feels good and it gives me a bit of
extra strength
to
make sure when I'm back
I'm firing
and
it gives me that bit of
hunger
not that I'm lacking it but I feel like
the extra boost I feel like okay it's on
one on back kind of thing
and the club standing by you in such a
way
has that kind of cemented your loyalty a
little bit to Brentford
yeah I feel like like I said earlier I
want a manager in a club to like really
want me and put their arm around me and
I feel like throughout the whole
situation
have done that
you know even even the players as well
you know I spoke to loads of them
they don't agree with it but it is what
it is
and and your mum yeah she's that one is
like going back to the Tweet when I said
when I put that tweet up
she's the first person to write me a
message me and said listen
he doesn't need to do nothing
just don't do no more please I've been
saying how she's been sick for she feels
sick in her stomach for an hour long
throughout the whole situation
and putting out there she's just
thinking it's gonna
damage me
damage her and damage the family and
things like this so I just thought okay
let me just do the talk of my feet and
when I'm back
get get the family
well they're not smiling but happy happy
again and
I'm sure they can't well they can't wait
to see the
there's some back on the pitch screen
goes
does she does it mean the most to you to
make her happy and to make her feel good
all my family yeah
I feel like
she always just texts me randomly and
she's like she was I don't want to
bother you sometimes I just check on
what I've seen on WhatsApp to wait for
you to come online to know your okay and
alive and well and
that's just that's how my mom is like
maybe sometimes like my mum she knows
and she does she calls me random times
it'd be 12 at night it would be early
doors just checking in I was fine I love
you so much this and that
that's our favorite one checking to see
if I'm online on WhatsApp bro with him
pestering me in our eyes but
so
I think
making them happy and making them smile
as well
is what gives me the filter do well
the Brentford fanbase
yeah strong massive as well yeah
where I go I'll get I get love from The
Breakfast fun so
[Music]
what's your uh you're gonna get back to
football and uh you've you I can feel
you've got a certain fire inside you
yep
I think
I just not that I need to prove anybody
wrong but there's a lot of haters and
doubles out there thinking
you're gonna be saying that when he
comes back
actually they're right I'm gonna be a
different man and even better than that
that guy that scored Them Girls before
so how'd you know
because Mom I'm built different
my mentality is different
I'm not one of these I could have been a
great player
hadn't he done this
I'm I'm gonna go beyond that
honest
like I said not a point to prove but
point to proves to myself
how would you ensure that happens like
what is it that because I think about
controllables what is it that you can
control to make sure that you come back
even an even better player is it just
training harder is it what is it that
you're it's training harder but in my
head every time I step on a pitch I'm
thinking in my head I'm gonna score
today
I'm going to school when a chance comes
I'm gonna score
because in the game you your bands get a
chance that you should be scoring
so in my head now thinking right when I
do play and I do get that chance that I
should be scoring it has to be a goal so
it's going to be a goal well if it's not
next won't be a goal
or if it's not it will be
I'll be two goals
you know Brentford is a fantastic team I
think of all the teams in the Premier
League if we talk about admiration I
really admire Brighton at the moment but
Brentford I absolutely think our
brilliant brilliant team really ton of
admiration for them
um there's a lot of people that are
obviously linking you to other clubs and
saying oh is he gonna join this
Manchester United all of that
how do you receive all of that you know
all these links to because everyone's
looking for a striker Strikers are like
the hardest to find goal scorers in the
Premier League you've got Harlan you've
got Kane he's gone now now you're
technically the second best Striker
that's currently in the league on paper
so you know these big clubs are going to
come knocking they're going to say you
know Chelsea's got [__] unlimited
money over here
united we need a striker how do you
receive all of that
I mean like from Young and like I said I
don't let this
all affect me obviously Ariel going on
in the background but my job is to keep
training well when I get the chance in
the games to keep scoring and doing well
but I think everybody wants to play at
the top of the tree and not that
Bradford aren't there
but
I feel like playing for a big Club
fighting for trophies and these kind of
things everybody wants to do and if
the chance was to come along
I think I'd be silly not uh not to look
more into it but
I feel like yeah and the manager knows
that
I want to be playing at the highest
possible level level possible
and whenever that time comes then
this would be it but I can't think of my
time at brentford's been
been good be probably one of the best
times in my career and that's a special
club like they just got something they
got a culture there which is super
special so you know that culture you
describe will get the best out of you as
a player for sure so it's like great
talent great culture equals great
results it's like one plus one equals
three
yeah now yeah I like the next Club I go
to if I was to move it would be like
the rat club
when you say the right Club you're not
talking about Liverpool are you I heard
you're a Liverpool fan yeah a Liverpool
fan a Liverpool fan I feel you've been a
Liverpool fan your whole life
yeah I've been living for my whole life
but from Young
I liked I've liked Arsenal I like
watching Arsenal from how they play and
the kind of how passionate fans are
but yeah level fan level boy at heart
and so Liverpool at heart love how
Arsenal play love their style their
anything about Manchester United I like
I like Barbershop when he was there okay
I liked watching United a lot when both
offers it so thank you but we do
actually need a striker so I've actually
got a contract here that Eric and
Richard Arnold would have given me soon
imagine
now listen I hope you um I I just want
to see you back playing again because I
think I think it's a it's a gift to the
Premier League your talent and also when
I look at your story
you didn't have a straight line that a
lot of people have in football you went
up down up down up down up down and you
persevered because the talent is
you can't argue with it you can't argue
with the talent and so this whole
gambling section of your life
um it's a bit of a blip in there so I
heard all you've overcome and you've
taken taken your your punishment
um you move on from that you admit
responsibility
yeah yeah
um
and so now it becomes the backup again
about the football
yeah like you said the Journey's been
it's been wild it's been crazy and if if
I was to read a book on
myself
I'd say this guy's done a lot I've been
through a lot and
he's still fighting and it's still
climbing to the top of the tree like
how's he managing with that with
everything that's going on what's the
goal
you know if I if we if we have this
conversation again at the end of your
career and we sit down here and we go
man and you go damn that was a
successful career Steve what happened
I want to be playing for England and
scoring goals
I don't want to be
I played England a couple times
I want to be
the main man
Wherever I Go
and and Finland oh no we got Harry Kane
days
probably one of the best strikers in the
world if not the best
so and that's what I'm up against
so I need to get to that level
so it's just six
working hard and keep fighting a little
Euros around the corner as well yeah and
that's another
it's another place I want to get to
which I do believe that
in my head I'm right I'm ready to get to
you so
and at Club level what are your
Ambitions there in football
um win the win win trophies win some
silverware
I feel like
I feel like I want to play for
the highest highest level possible
playful with
playful Club that's I'm loved that not
just one of
but I feel like
like with all my moves I've not just
gone to a club before whatever or money
or whatever I've gone it's been the
right step for me
and I've achieved something every year
every year I've just got better and
better
you wanna win the Premier League one day
that's that's the aim that's the M I
wanna win the World Cup also
on a win trophies that's like
wow
I'm being from where
I'm from
Northampton not many
people can achieve them things or be
like yeah
he's been at the World Cup he's won the
World Cup yeah I know even then that
my mom still lives in the same house
really yeah she doesn't want to move she
likes being down
people will run there be like yeah I
have his mom lives there I do that now
but it'd be more of achievement
and I've won something like that and
like yeah I'm his mum's there Ivan comes
there all the time
I think that's kind of
kind of how we are oh I am and you can
see like my mom's she doesn't want to
move into some big house she feels safe
and comfy
at the house where she's at and that
shows that I have another no choice put
to be grounded and you have three kids
as well yeah three little boys do you
think about them do you think about what
the Legacy you want to leave that
they're going to grow up and learn about
does that cross your mind a lot yeah
yeah it does
I want to leave Alexi that they don't
have no pressure on their shoulders to
walk into
I just wanted to whether there is a
football or whatever industry they look
to go into which obviously I would want
to say is football
but whatever whatever they do want them
to be successful and be like
be strong like my chosen
I feel like that I'd want them I do want
them to have the same upbringing I had
like I wouldn't put into that private
school under these things because I
don't want to just give them everything
I wanted to
have to work for certain things
what advice would you give them about
how to how to navigate say they uh they
do go into football all three of them
and they say they come to you one day
they say Dad listen I've just got a call
from the biggest club in the world
Manchester United and
I'm gonna I'm gonna accept it go go to
Manchester playing to Eric
um I need some advice dad
I'm you know I'm on my way tomorrow what
advice can you give me Dad how the
mentality as you're the best player on
the pitch
you might not be
but having that mentality will help you
play Bell
and just have the hunger
you haven't got the hunger or the drive
you'll step behind already
I'd say like also
attitude is key
good I'll get you a long way
not just in football or work in life
quick one I discovered a product which
has changed my life called Eight sleep
and I'm so proud to say today that I had
a chat with the founder of the brand and
they are now a podcast sponsor and one
of the things I've come to learn on this
podcast from speaking with Sleep Experts
like Matthew Walker is how important
temperature is when it comes to sleep
the temperature of your room the
temperature of your bed and also one of
the big insights I had from speaking to
some experts was that the temperature of
the room should fluctuate throughout the
night as you move through different
stages of sleep so when you first get
into bed it should be quite cool in bed
it should then get a little bit cooler
and then the temperature should increase
near the end and that is a reflection of
what would have happened in nature once
upon a time you've probably come to
learn that I have sponsors on this
podcast that I use and products that I
love my sponsors should be a reflection
of the conversations I'm having but also
a reflection of what I'm using in my
life so to celebrate them being a new
podcast sponsor I always want to get a
discount for you guys and I've got one
go to a sleep.com which is e i g h t
sleep.com slash Stephen and if you do
that you'll save a hundred and fifty
dollars on the Pod cover that I have on
my bed the one I'm talking about grab
your pod cover send me a DM and let me
know how you get on a quick word on huel
as you know they're a sponsor of this
podcast and I'm an investor in the
company one of the things I've never
really explained is how I came to have a
relationship with huel one day in the
office many years ago a guy walked past
called Michael and he was wearing a
heeled t-shirt and I was really
compelled by the logo I just thought
from a design aesthetic point of view it
was really interesting and I asked him
what that word meant and why he was
wearing that T-shirt and he said it's
this brand called heal and they make
food that is nutritionally complete and
very very convenient and has the planet
in mind and he the next day dropped off
a little bottle of fuel on my desk and
from that day onwards I completely got
it because I'm someone that cares
tremendously about having a
nutritionally complete diet but
sometimes because of the way my life is
that falls by the wayside so if there
was a really convenient reliable
trustworthy way for me to be
nutritionally complete in an affordable
way I was all ears especially if it's a
way that is conscious of the planet give
it a chance give it a shot let me know
what you think
you know we needed this this tweet the
famous tweet I'll speak soon with no
filter I understand that I came from a
place of anger like a bit defensive
whatever mood settles your mom text you
you're like okay maybe this is not gonna
help the situation there was a lot you
wanted to say right you wanted to talk
specifically about the allegations
you've decided now from what you're
saying that it's not worth it for you to
like go in and dispute things and say
this that the other's not true but was
there anything that you do want to say
to like the football Community or just
to the world generally as a message when
you tweet that like outside of like the
stuff where we're like a bit bitter and
hurt because everything that's going on
and people are attacking you whatever is
there anything else you wanted to say
because I just want to give you a chance
just uh
um
not really like you said that most of it
come from anger and it's kind of like
everybody's against me kind of thing
but with that it's kind of like I was
more worried on people like
thinking how I am
how I am as a person
like what they read and what they hear
rather than how I actually am but the
the people around me friends family the
only people I should be worried about
they know how I am
why don't it's expensive Bob down the
road how I actually am I probably never
gonna see him again so it doesn't matter
that why am I explaining that why am I
going out
there to give it like a back and forth
like
I don't need to do that and it doesn't
benefit me it just benefits him and
trying to get more reaction from me
so
like you said it definitely was out of
our anger anger kind of moment it's kind
of like all right let me say distant let
me say that not knowing
it's not gonna affect it could it could
have
so it's not
I don't need to try and prove nobody
wrong or prove nobody right it's just
focus on myself
family and
do I do best which is playing well and
scoring goals speaking with your feet
correct
I did want to talk to you about one last
thing you did a tweet as well about a DM
someone sent you yeah
um someone had dm'd you calling you a
black c word
um and you posted the Tweet
um subsequently you stopped taking the
knee during at the start of Premier
League games and such
racism and football
do you do you still receive racial abuse
um still today yeah you do if I was to
post everything I've received that's
been racist
I'd have easily
around 100 messages
easy just real off there there there has
that increased since the sanctions were
made against you from the commission
no because I feel like
most of it's just been rubbish that I
get a lot of people are saying but I
feel like most of it's from playing a
game and
someone's bet on you or you haven't
scored and then they come on come for
you for like these kind of things or
the fantasy league yeah football league
that you don't get enough points and
they'll come at you like this or
your score to lose that but also just
things like this why don't you stop
taking the knee
because I feel like it's it's a certain
gesture it's not really it's lost its
purpose
and like you can see like before games
like people like run off without half of
the knee forgot about it like the
purpose isn't there no more I don't
think that's doing nothing in the game
to help stop
these kind of things from happening
more needs to be done for sure for sure
100 all over the world not just in the
UK but we obviously saw what happened to
veniscus Jr as well in the in the La
Liga
um and it does does feel like
if there was harsher action taken then a
lot of this stuff wouldn't be happening
even from the platforms and also from
the police
um
you know yeah the most most well some of
them
are from abroad and it's kind of like
it's not in the UK they can't do nothing
about it
and I'm like okay so what you just keep
sending from
wherever
but yes we can't do nothing it's not
it's not us
okay so it's fine then basically you're
saying it's fine yeah it's like what'd
you do
yeah I feel like
it's lost his purpose personally anyway
and I feel like it's kind of like
puppets that people at the top were kind
of like
let's try this well let's do this keep
people quiet for a bit
just do that and
be trying
it's not trying
you're counting down the days now yeah
that is the um it's like really good at
Christmas yeah
what kind of day counting down the days
or too often trying to be around the
boys because like
being in football prison at the moment
when I rounded boys I think it won't get
easier but it'll get a little bit easier
but not
the same was like you train a whole week
hard at the end of the week it's not
like
and go on a reward you're not playing a
match
and then is it January you can play yeah
January the 17th you can train again I
can't play with matches oh you can play
matches yes 17 for September
I can train so
oh September you can train in September
I can train yeah okay being a club
around the boys okay I say not long yeah
not long not long less than a month yeah
it feels like ages or and then you can
play in January that's going to be a
very big game a lot of people are going
to be watching that yeah do you feel
pressure no I know I I I thrive off
pressure when it's like he surely he
can't do that he's not gonna be able to
do it
and that's what the the pressure was
I was spoken about after the playoff
final
I'm gonna go the penalty
after the game it was like you must have
been scared like if you missed you
probably could have like
you could probably could have lost it
massive I was thinking no I can't wait
like I knew four facts I was going up
anyway 100
because it was the pressure
and like the reward after it gives you a
bigger chance to jump into Premier
League
and more money for family so
are you trying to prove people right or
trying to prove people wrong what
matters more to you uh
proving people wrong so I can have a
little bigger yeah I like that I like
when I see certain certain tweets and
then when I do something I come back to
it and just like
a little comment and dig at the person
and there's just lots of words
you're right you win you've been taking
names throughout this process just like
this pundit said this this person I mean
there's loads of pundits I say loads of
things it's all opinions but
when I come back school enough I'm sure
they'll
go back into the bush and back pedal on
what they say
ladies and gentlemen I'm interrupting
this broadcast with a very special
announcement two years ago I started
writing a book based on everything I've
learned from doing this podcast and
meeting all of the incredible people
that have had the privilege of meeting
but also from my career in business from
running my marketing businesses my
software business my investment fund and
everything else that I've been doing in
business and life and from this I've
created a brand new book called The
Diary of a CEO the 33 laws for business
and life if you want to build something
great all become great yourself like the
guests that I've sat here and
interviewed I ask you please please
please read these 33 laws the book I
always should have written if you like
this podcast this book is for you and it
is available now in the description of
this podcast below and every single day
until it's out later this month one
person that pre-orders it that takes a
picture of their pre-order uploads it to
their story on Instagram or social media
and tags me will win a Gold version of
this book signed by me and there's only
33 copies of those available
so pre-order it now tag me on social
media when you do
and 33 if you're going to win a very
very special book
we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're going to leave it for sure
so they wrote a question for you here in
this diary
the question been left for you is
when have you most
had to face your fears
Poppy the bun
because
I think loads of things going through
your head it's like
like I said if I'm having football at
such a young age
not knowing if there's loads of things
that God for your head like what
how are you going to cope with things
like at the time I was kind of like
not wary I feel like I'm a confident
person but going out in certain places
the topic is gonna be about the whole
Scandal that's going on
people gonna talk about it but I'm with
me it's like do they want to talk about
it they're thinking do I want to talk
about it
um not scared in a way but it's kind of
like it's an awkward kind of meeting
kind of thing but yeah it's an elephant
in the room yeah yeah yeah and then it
comes to the point where it's like well
they'll say something like oh I bet you
can't do that and it's kind of like oh
that kind of thing but I'm like yeah
what's done it's done like you could
talk about it
then I talk about it then I mean it's
cleared so I feel like
not knowing what people thinking about
you not people not knowing what people
want to kind of talk to you
not knowing if you're going to be fit
when you come back or
not knowing what you're going to do you
whilst you're off at loads of things
going to your head and it's like it
hasn't crossed your mind you might like
lose your form or something
that that actually did yeah it did at
the time but like I know I can get
myself and go swimming uh positions so I
don't feel like
that that would be such a big issue but
it does cross your mind like whatever
the school within the first five games
six games
you're gonna think that the world's
ending kind of thing but yeah I think
that was the fear of these kind of
things not knowing what's next kind of
thing and as the days have passed it's
got easier right
it's got easy in ways but it's got
harder and like oh okay
easier than like too long around the
boys and that's kind of like my head's
fine now I'm at the club
doing what I do best and enjoy but then
it's kind of like
at the end of the week I can't play
games whilst uh the game was kind of
like
it's like torture watching yeah he's
torture like I hate watching games not
when I should be on the pitch
do you think you deserve the punishment
you got
um I mean
if that's what the rules are
then so be it that's the punishment I
should have got but yeah looking on the
other cases
and the fact that they were
lower leagues
it's kind of like
why did he get that and I got this
is it because he's there and I'm here
but now I feel like
if this is a punishment for doing what
I've done to make that make sure the
next person gets that make sure next
person gets that like make it all fair
fair and correct
what
I think it was fair but
it is what it is
I can't
see
I can't change nothing now I can't
that's not put me focuses on
if it's fair or not that isn't help no
situations yeah I think it's possible to
take responsibility for your actions I
did that but also to think that it was
unfair because they I think maybe
rightly so they are they are making
making an example of you because those
lower league players that would never
send a message would it of course so
with the big wages and the big status
and the popularity and all the upsides
comes this other thing which is like
bigger sanctions bigger publicity bigger
it's more of a talking point and more
and more of a story but and I'll tell
you what you go out there and you start
bagging goals
yeah ain't nobody gonna be talking about
oh anything else that's that's another
reason I want to be scoring goals so
four things right and that people talk
about my goal scoring rather than
rubbish past
I think you I think you're gonna I think
you're gonna go back to Brentford and I
think you're gonna [__] tear it up
um because I sense a real deep Drive in
you that I've not seen in many people
um a real sense of like self-belief and
conviction even what you're saying about
the penalties there like I played at
soccer Aid and they came over to me and
asked me if I wanted a panel you know
I went to the back of the group I swear
of that so hard this year I played this
year I got injured before the game at
Old Trafford but I played in training
and we had to do a penalty issue out
Potch was the manager and um I just said
to myself Steve Stafford and take one
and this was to decide who got which
dressing room I took one I scored it and
then the next day I pulled my pulled my
hamstring got the grade three tear but I
was proud of myself for stepping up and
doing it yeah
I think if you have in your head I'm
gonna do this you have a better chance
of thinking
what is this there's no point thinking
that I even was yeah back is 100 like it
was
Strikers I've played with especially
strikes I play with now
because he's I'll say I'll say his name
Brian good because he knows he's like my
little brother
I said something like
when he missed a chance he gets so angry
with himself saying bro it's fine you
you're not a robot you can miss chances
when the next chance comes you'll score
and he he's he's got a lot better at
that and he's been scoring so
I think just
don't dwell on things but you've got a
big trunk coming up January yes and I
hope you score oh I know I I know I know
I know I do well and like I said this is
just another hard one
my bumpy road but
it's all good it could be worse
Ivan thank you thank you for um thank
you for the time thank you for the
inspiration you've given me
um I feel like I understand you
feel like I understand you and listen we
all make mistakes in life I think it's
really important we've all made mistakes
having so many mistakes I think it's
yours are obviously more publicly
broadcast because of who you are and
you're at the top of the game you're the
peak of your powers but um I think it's
important as you've said that you you
take responsibility for it you move on
and you let the football do the talking
and I think that's exactly exactly what
you have done and that's what um I'm
really excited to see from you going
forward as I said because you're special
you've got a very special talent you've
got a very special mentality and a very
special talent to match it and uh
we can't let that go to waste so we need
to it will go to waste for sure some of
the people around me
they won't allow it to go toys so
good
thank you so much for your time bro
means a lot to me that you um came here
and spoke to me and uh I'm a big fan and
I really do hope you end up at
Manchester United one day
thanks for having me thanks thanks it's
been good it's been good to talk through
things and
maybe this can help the next person if
there was to think twice on doing side
of things or
maybe to open up about sort of thing so
yes
probably it's probably easiest good
effects off me like I said
quick one you guys know that for years
now my office is quite literally been
everywhere on a plane in the back of my
car in a terminal in an airport or on a
train you name it I've probably worked
there ever since I started my first
business at 19 years old I've been
working on the move all I need is Wi-Fi
a desk and my headphones and I'm set and
one of the places that has always had my
back when I'm struggling to find an
office is wework I've been using wework
for years now whether it's in Manchester
London Manhattan or La wework is easy it
literally requires no thinking there's
no stress of finding the perfect working
location wework does it all for you
plenty of desk space meeting rooms
collaboration spaces drink snacks it's
all there so for your next remote
working trip away from the office or if
you want a new Fresh space to work in
then don't just work anywhere wework
might just be your answer you can get 25
off your first six months of wework all
access by using Code CEO works that's
one word CEO works and to redeem this
offer visit we.com
CEO works
[Music]
foreign